good lighting is paramount many of these
new digital cameras are doing incredible
things in low light situations but the
equipment can't do all the work you
still have to know what some of the
basic principles are for good lighting
so let's talk about the most basic
lighting technique for lighting an
interview which is what we're interested
in in oral history and that's going to
be three-point lighting so we have three
sources of light we have the key light
we have the backlight and we have a fill
now let's take a look at what these
lights all do and what their function is
right now we're primarily lit by room
lighting and so so what we're going to
do is bring up the controlled lighting
so let's start off with the key light
your key light is really the primary
light in your three point lighting
system so it's at about a 45 degree
angle it's about six seven feet away
from the subject it's usually your most
powerful light in in the three of the
three sources the next light is the fill
light which helps balance out the key
light so your shadow is minimized and it
helps illuminate the other side of the
face that is it is not necessarily being
controlled by the key light the
backlight is the third light and this is
the one that's actually going to provide
some dimension and you notice I'm
wearing a black jacket I've got a black
background I have some black hair left
and so it is the backlight really does
light up you know the the edge of my
head the shoulders and and separates me
from the background which is which which
is important again providing a balanced
approach it also is great for once again
minimizing shadows that are created by
the other two lights the key light is
usually the more powerful light in the
mix
and and is the primary light source but
it creates shadows being just one light
source so it needs to be balanced and so
the best way to balance a key light is
then to have a fill light that comes in
at another angle too to help sort of
fill out the lighting of that particular
multi-dimensional object and and both
lights are usually set at around a 45
degree angle 25 to 45 degree angle and
as you were saying you like the height
to come down from the key light and the
fill light is usually a little bit lower
it's also about half the wattage of the
key light and so it really is just
balancing out it's not blasting another
light source at pachu so let's take a
look at what it looks like without a
fill light again so this is just the key
light and the backlight and you see
you've got a significant dark darkening
over on this side now you can do some
some kind of cool things with you know
in terms of creative lighting if you're
looking for a sort of an arty look so in
some ways the shadowing creates kind of
a creative arty look but that might get
really old in a 3-hour interview and so
so let's take a look at the balancing
that's created by the fill light so the
fill light switches on and just like
does exactly what it says it fills in I
think what is what is the gaps created
by the key light in terms of overall
lighting and so you see kind of a
balancing so right now the backlight is
currently on and what you get is a sort
of a sort of separation from the
background of you know around the head
and the hair and the shoulders and what
that does is you see the light there
that that separates me from the
background even more critical because
I'm wearing a black jacket on a black
background and so you will start to see
a sort of blending so let's try to take
out the the backlight now and see what
that looks like
you see the difference now the backlight
is is is we don't have the backlight on
and you see me kind of blend into the
background I also it I kind of flatten
in terms of the picture so we lose
dimension when we don't have the
backlight so let's turn the backlight
back on and and see how it it kind of
pops me out yeah so so you see it's kind
of like a highlight in terms of what
it's the effect that it creates really
important I think in the lighting
strategy that you take because a lot of
people forget to or just don't use a
backlight and the video picture just
flattens out significantly so we're
trying to add dimension to a flat
picture and through lighting to creative
lighting you know in a good example
would be to now have you take your
jacket off yeah okay so we've made a
little change here which is we asked
Doug to take off his jacket so now we
have a completely different composition
and in fact in my opinion this is a much
more interesting shot so Doug's greenish
blue shirt against the black backdrop is
going to be much more enjoyable for a
longer interview to watch it's difficult
to make me look interesting so I
appreciate that
now lighting wise we've left the same
set up we still have a backlight so we
see the the dimension of his his right
shoulder and the key light we left in
the same place and we have a relatively
even light across his face where the
fill has just left a slight shadow on
his left the left side of his face one
of the keys to lighting is always going
to be flexibility and understanding what
is the consequence of a light a light
source put it in the wrong place and
knowing and feeling comfortable making
the right adjustment to balance out that
light and to achieve the effect that you
want
there's only one way to do that and
that's through practice
you know set up your light system and
put somebody in the seat and move those
lights around and get a sense for how
does your camera react to changes in
lighting how does your moving your
lights change the way that your picture
ultimately turns out